DOC-5285 - Upgrading (Evolving) Cordapps (#1384)
corda/corda-docs-portal: content/en/platform/corda/5.0/developing-applications/upgrading/_index.md

---
date: '2023-05-18'
title: "Upgrading CorDapps"
project: corda
version: 'Corda 5.0'
menu:
  corda5:
    identifier: corda5-upgrading
    parent: corda5-develop
    weight: 9000
section_menu: corda5

---

# Upgrading CorDapps

> This topic describes how to upgrade a CorDapp that has already deployed to Corda to a newer version which Corda will interpret as a new version of the same application. Typically you might want to upgrade your CorDapp to fix bugs, create new functionality or change existing functionality. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This topic describes how to upgrade a Corda deployed CorDapp to a newer version, which Corda will interpret as a new version of the same application. Typically you might want to upgrade your CorDapp to fix bugs, create new functionality or change existing functionality. 
```

> This topic describes how to upgrade a CorDapp that has already deployed to Corda to a newer version which Corda will interpret as a new version of the same application. Typically you might want to upgrade your CorDapp to fix bugs, create new functionality or change existing functionality. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This topic describes how to upgrade a CorDapp that has already been deployed to Corda to a newer version which Corda will interpret as a new version of the same application.
```

Reviewer: My existing suggestion above changes the sentence structure anyway. Once done, it should be a lot better, but Paul can review again and see if any other little change is needed to simplify it further.

> Corda must be able to interpret that two versions of an application are to be considered the same application in order to maintain continuity of any state it has preserved internally relating to the operation of that application.

Reviewer: Very long sentence to have no punctuation. Consider structure, punctuation, or both.

> Corda must be able to interpret that two versions of an application are to be considered the same application in order to maintain continuity of any state it has preserved internally relating to the operation of that application.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Corda must be able to interpret that the two versions are of the same application in order to maintain continuity of any state it has preserved internally relating to that application's operation.
```

> Note that the scope of this topic does not include migrating application data persisted by any of the Corda persistence APIs. Nor does it include ensuring different versions of flow implementations are compatible with one another.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that the scope of this topic does not include migrating application data persisted by any of the Corda persistence APIs. Nor does it include ensuring that different versions of flow implementations are compatible with one another.
```

## Identifying CorDapps Across Versions

> Corda packages (CPKs) are identified across versions by the value of their `Corda CPK CorDapp Name` metadata field. Keeping the same value for `Corda CPK CorDapp Name` while making other changes to the CPK indicates to Corda you consider the CPK to be a new version of the same CPK. As well as the value of  `Corda CPK CorDapp Name`, the set of signers of the CPK must also be kept the same across versions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Corda packages (CPKs) are identified across versions by the value of their `Corda CPK CorDapp Name` metadata field. Keeping the same value for `Corda CPK CorDapp Name` while making other changes to the CPK indicates to Corda that you consider the CPK to be a new version of the same CPK. As well as the value of  `Corda CPK CorDapp Name`, the set of signers of the CPK must also be kept the same across versions.
```

> Any data internally serialized by Corda is tagged with both `Corda CPK CorDapp Name` and the set of signers that signed the CPK. On deserialization, the tag will be checked against the current version of the CPK’s `Corda CPK CorDapp Name` and set of signers. If both of these match, Corda will consider this data as deserializable for the CPK.

Reviewer: Is **deserializable** a word? Not sure, but genuinely checking. Sounds like an internal made-up word potentially. ???

How `Corda CPK CorDapp Name` is set differs between Corda 5.0 and subsequent versions.

## Identifying CorDapps in Corda 5.0

In Corda 5.0, `Corda CPK CorDapp Name` is not configurable, but is set using the concatenation of the following properties defined by the Corda build system:

* `project.group`

* `archiveBaseName`

* `archiveAppendix`

* `archiveClassifier`

These properties need to remain stable in your application CPK for `Corda CPK CorDapp Name` to remain stable.

> `project.group` and `archiveBaseName` are set to a value if not explicitly specified, and will reflect the name of the Gradle module your CorDapp sits under. To keep these properties the same across versions, you have two options:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`project.group` and `archiveBaseName` are set to a value if not explicitly specified. These will reflect the name of the Gradle module that your CorDapp sits under. To keep these properties the same across versions, you have two options:
```

* Explicitly set the properties in your project.

> * Manage your software versions so that the properties would never change. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Manage your software versions so that the properties never change. 
```

> For example, the second option would be the case if you manage subsequent versions using git branches so the application resides in the same git module, and then simply leave these fields and project structure alone throughout all versions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, the second option would be the case if you manage subsequent versions using git branches, so that the application resides in the same git module. This means that you simply leave these fields and project structure alone in all versions.
```
